.TH COPY 1 "2026" "copy 1.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
copy \- pipe stdin to the system clipboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B copy
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B copy
reads all of standard input and writes it to the system clipboard,
automatically detecting whether to use an X11, Wayland, WSL, or
macOS clipboard backend.
.PP
It is intended to be used at the end of a shell pipeline, in place of
redirecting to a file:
.PP
.RS
.EX
cat notes.txt | copy
.EE
.RE
.PP
No configuration is required. If no supported clipboard backend is
installed on the system, \fBcopy\fR reports exactly which package to
install for the detected session type.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-lines " " \fIN\fR
Only copy the last \fIN\fR lines of input, matching the behavior of
.BR tail (1).
Cannot be combined with \fB\-c\fR/\fB\-\-chars\fR.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-chars " " \fIN\fR
Only copy the last \fIN\fR characters of input.
Cannot be combined with \fB\-n\fR/\fB\-\-lines\fR.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-print
Also print the text that was copied to standard output, so the
result can be verified or piped further.
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-keep\-newline
Keep a single trailing newline if present in the copied text. By
default, \fBcopy\fR strips one trailing newline, matching the
behavior most users expect when pasting into a text field.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print usage information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version and license information and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Input was successfully copied to the clipboard.
.TP
.B 1
No input was provided, no clipboard backend was found, the backend
failed to run, or an invalid option was given.
.SH EXAMPLES
Copy a short string:
.RS
.EX
echo "hello" | copy
.EE
.RE
.PP
Copy the last 20 lines of a live log file:
.RS
.EX
tail -f app.log | copy -n 20
.EE
.RE
.PP
Copy the last 500 characters of kernel messages and verify what was copied:
.RS
.EX
dmesg | copy -c 500 -p
.EE
.RE
.SH BACKENDS
.B copy
looks for the following tools, depending on session type, and uses
whichever is installed:
.TP
.B X11
.BR xclip (1)
or
.BR xsel (1)
.TP
.B Wayland
.BR wl\-copy (1)
(part of wl\-clipboard)
.TP
.B WSL
.B clip.exe
.TP
.B macOS
.BR pbcopy (1)
.SH LIMITS
Input is read into a dynamically growing in-memory buffer, with a
512 MB safety ceiling to prevent unbounded memory use from a runaway
input stream. If this ceiling is reached, \fBcopy\fR exits with an
error and copies nothing rather than truncating the data silently.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by MaxEdgar.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs or feature requests at
.UR https://github.com/MaxEdgar/copy/issues
.UE .
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 MaxEdgar. License MIT: see the LICENSE file
distributed with this program.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xclip (1),
.BR xsel (1),
.BR wl\-copy (1),
.BR tail (1)
